Refine the Array.prototype.reduce() doc for clarity (#7484)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/array/reduce/index.md

---
{{JSRef}}

> The **`reduce()`** method executes a “reducer” callback function (that you provide) on each element of the array, resulting in a single output value (the result of running the reducer to completion over the entire array).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`reduce()`** method executes a user-supplied “reducer” callback function on each element of the array, passing in the return value from the calculation on the preceding element. The final result of running the reducer across all elements of the array is a single value. 
```

I prefer the original text - the extra words don't help. What I'm trying to capture in this suggestion is that this was missing the concept that the results of the each call reflect the previous call. That's accumulation :-)

Reviewer: PS I don't love my words so not precious if you want to consider alternatives.

Author: > PS I don't love my words so not precious if you want to consider alternatives.

I quite like your words :) And I agree it’s an improvement — it reads a lot more smoothly, without the double-parentheticals.

> Perhaps the easiest-to-understand case for `reduce()` is to return the sum of all the elements in an array, by walking through the array element-by-element and accumulating a running sum of all the elements that precede each element, and then adding each element in turn to that accumulated sum — until there are no more elements to add — as shown in the following interactive example:

Reviewer: This sentence is too long/hard to parse. I'm having trouble rewriting it but minimally perhaps a full stop 
```suggestion
Perhaps the easiest-to-understand case for `reduce()` is to return the sum of all the elements in an array. 
The reducer walks through the array element-by-element, at each step adding the current array value to the result from the previous step (this result is the running sum of all the previous steps) — until there are no more elements to add.
This is shown in the following interactive example:
```

Author: Yes. This is better for clarity and for breaking up the paragraph length for better readability.

> {{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/array-reduce.html")}}

Reviewer: FYI This still uses the old accumulator terminology. Modify for consistency?

Author: > FYI This still uses the old accumulator terminology. Modify for consistency?

Yes, thanks for reminding me — I plan on updating that interactive example after this PR is merged (but would rather not block this PR on that, because it’s a chicken/egg race condition; one or the other would need to land first, regardless).

Author: > Yes, thanks for reminding me — I plan on updating that interactive example after this PR is merged

Opened https://github.com/mdn/interactive-examples/pull/1887

## Syntax

```js
// Arrow function
reduce((previousValue, currentValue) => { ... } )
reduce((previousValue, currentValue, currentIndex) => { ... } )
reduce((previousValue, currentValue, currentIndex, array) => { ... } )
reduce((previousValue, currentValue, currentIndex, array) => { ... }, initialValue)

// Callback function
reduce(callbackFn)
reduce(callbackFn, initialValue)

// Inline callback function
reduce(function callbackFn(previousValue, currentValue) { ... })
reduce(function callbackFn(previousValue, currentValue, currentIndex) { ... })
reduce(function callbackFn(previousValue, currentValue, currentIndex, array){ ... })
reduce(function callbackFn(previousValue, currentValue, currentIndex, array) { ... }, initialValue)
```

### Parameters

- *callbackFn*

>   - : A “reducer” function that takes four arguments:

Reviewer: FWIW Don't know if we're supposed to use bullets or nested definition lists. I don't think it matters here.

Reviewer: @sideshowbarker But everywhere else parameters are in code style - e.g. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter

Author: > FWIW Don't know if we're supposed to use bullets or nested definition lists. I don't think it matters here.

Yeah it was definition list to start with, so just kept it that way.

Author: > @sideshowbarker But everywhere else parameters are in code style - e.g. [developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter)

Yeah, I don’t like that style, but I’ll change it here for consistency (and push the change in a minute)

    - *previousValue* (the value resulting from the previous call to *callbackfn*)
    - *currentValue* (the value of the current element)
    - *currentIndex* {{optional_inline}}
    - *array* (the array to traverse) {{optional_inline}}

> - *initialValue* {{optional_inline}}

Reviewer: Ditto - should this be code style (and inline below)

reduce(function callbackFn(previousValue, currentValue, currentIndex, array){ ... })
reduce(function callbackFn(previousValue, currentValue, currentIndex, array) { ... }, initialValue)
```

### Parameters

- *callbackFn*
  - : A “reducer” function that takes four arguments:
    - *previousValue* (the value resulting from the previous call to *callbackfn*)
    - *currentValue* (the value of the current element)
    - *currentIndex* {{optional_inline}}
    - *array* (the array to traverse) {{optional_inline}}

- *initialValue* {{optional_inline}}
  - : A value to which *previousValue* is initialized the first time the callback is called. If *initialValue* is specified, that also causes *currentValue* to be initialized to the first value in the array. If *initialValue* is *not* specified, *previousValue* is initialized to the first value in the array, and *currentValue* is initialized to the second value in the array.

### Return value

The value that results from running the “reducer” callback function to completion over the entire array.

### Exceptions

Throws a {{jsxref("TypeError")}} if the array contains no elements and *initialValue* is not provided.

## Description

> The ECMASCript spec describes the behavior of `reduce()` as follows:

Reviewer: ECMASCript  or ECMAScript ?

Author: > ECMASCript or ECMAScript ?

oofs, thanks — fixed

> The first time that callback is called, the *previousValue* and *currentValue* can be one of two values:
> * If an *initialValue* was supplied in the call to `reduce`, then *previousValue* will be equal to *initialValue* and *currentValue* will be equal to the first value in the array.
> * If no *initialValue* was supplied, then *previousValue* will be equal to the first value in the array and *currentValue* will be equal to the second.
> It is a {{jsxref("TypeError")}} if the array contains no elements and *initialValue* is not provided.
>
> `reduce` does not directly mutate the object on which it is called but the object may be mutated by the calls to *callbackfn*.
>
> The range of elements processed by `reduce` is set before the first call to *callbackfn*. Elements that are appended to the array after the call to `reduce` begins will not be visited by *callbackfn*. If existing elements of the array are changed, their value as passed to *callbackfn* will be the value at the time `reduce` visits them; elements that are deleted after the call to `reduce` begins and before being visited are not visited.

If the array only has one element (regardless of position) and no

> *initialValue* is provided, or if

Reviewer: And I see you are being consistent within this doc.

Author: > And I see you are being consistent within this doc.

😆
